P5 119 rewrite caspers from screen to motors md to tex (#88)
aau-hcl-p5/main: report/5.Solution/FromScreenToMotors.tex

$$
in_\text{max}/2 - pos)/(in_\text{max}/2
$$

This value is then multiplied with the $out_\text{max}$:
$$
(in_\text{max}/2 - pos)/(in_\text{max}/2) \cdot out_\text{max}
$$

This results in a value between $-127$ and $127$, which was the desired output.

However, this results in the same precision in the lower end of the scale as the high end.
Meaning that, when the target is far away, the same precision will be archived as when it is close, and it was deemed that precision is more important closer to the centre, since only minor, but precise, adjustments will be needed.
This problem can be solved by the principles on which floating-point precision is build upon, and can be solved by making a quadratic function:

$$
f(pos) = ((in_\text{max}/2 - pos)/(in_\text{max}/2))^2 \cdot out_\text{max}
$$

However, a minor problem with this formula is that taking the position to the power of 2 removes the direction of the given axis due to the effect of squaring a negative number.
To solve this, the result is multiplied with ether $-1$ or $1$ on each axis to retain the direction.

$$
f(pos) = ((in_\text{max}/2 - pos)/(in_\text{max}/2))^2 \cdot dir(pos) \cdot out_\text{max}
$$

> The above function now maps from the screen position to a smaller range, but without losing too much relevant precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above function now maps from the screen position to a smaller range, but without losing much precision.
```

\subsection{From USB to motors}

> The NXT receives a 2-tuple in the range $-127$ to $127$ on both values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NXT receives a 2-tuple in the range $-127$ to $127$ for both the X and the Y value.
```

This 2-tuple should be mapped to the speed of the motor which is a value between $-100$ and $100$ on each axis where the number corresponds to a percentage-wise speed in either a positive or negative direction. 

> The output of the USB is an 8-bit signed integer, and the input of the motor is also an int.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of the USB is an 8-bit signed integer, and the input of the motor is also an integer.
```

The easiest way to do these calculations is by simply mapping the ranges directly onto one another.
However, it is undesirable to use a power value of 100, as the movement will be too extreme, likewise, a speed of 0 will oftentimes cause the motors to not move at all until reaching a power level of 10 or 20 due to the resistance created by the weight of the attached LEGO components.

> Therefore, a function is requires that maps between $-127$ and $127$ and some unknown lower and upper bounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, a function is required that maps between $-127$ and $127$ and some unknown lower and upper bounds.
```

> This function can then be used like the previous function used to translate screen position into a USB-friendly value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function can then be used like the previously used function, which translated the screen position into a USB-friendly value.
```

> After doing some testing with static lower and upper bounds, it was revealed that this was not possible as the motors require a different amount of power to move the same distance, based on the angle of the machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After doing some testing with static lower and upper bounds, it was revealed that this did not result in accurate movement, as the motors require a different amount of power to move the same distance, depending on the angle of the machine.
```

\section{Mapping between computer vision and movement}

> Two functions are needed to transfer the screen position to a velocity on the motors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two functions are needed to translate the screen position into a velocity on the motors.
```

Er velocity det rigtige ord her?

> First we need to transfer the screen position to the USB transfer, and then that format to a motor velocity.

Reviewer 2: synes at den her sætning er lidt et clusterfuck - forstår ikke meningen

\subsection{Screen to motors}
Two functions are needed to transfer the screen position to a velocity on the motors.

> First we need to transfer the screen position to the USB transfer, and then that format to a motor velocity.

Reviewer 2: gentagelse?????????

We need to make a function on the python part that maps these numbers.

This function will take in 'pos` which is going to be a 2d vector.

We get a location on the screen that we want to transfer to a 8-bit value. 
The range on the screen is 0-480 on one axis and 0-640 on the other.
The range on the "out" is in theory 0-255, however as we, later, want to change this into an either positive or negative velocity (based on direction) we need to center it around 0 (that makes it easier atleast) so the value will be -127 - 127 (ignoring the -128 value that is in fact possible in the 8-bit range).

We will define two constants:
\begin{itemize}

> \item in\_max = (480,640)

Reviewer 2: eller math mode

\item out\_max = 127
\end{itemize}

So we first need a function that maps the screen position to be zero centred: 
$$
in_\text{max}/2 - pos
$$

then we need to map this range to a new range, which we do by first translating the range from -240 - 320 to -1 - 1
this can be done with:
$$
in_\text{max}/2 - pos)/(in_\text{max}/2
$$

Then multiplying this value with the wanted out\_range.

$$
(in\_max/2 - pos)/(in\_max/2) \cdot out\_max
$$

> This gets us a simple value between -127 and 127. However this grants us the same precision in the lower end of the scale as with the high end of the scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This gets us a simple value between -127 and 127.
However this grants us the same precision in the lower end of the scale as with the high end of the scale.
```
